Dear Editor, 

I would like to submit to Ecology, for consideration as a report, our manuscript entitled "Looking for compensation at multiple scales in a wetland bird community". 

Community compensation occurs when decreases in the density of some species are offset by increases in the density of other species, so that total community size (or total biomass) fluctuates less than its constituent species. It is believed to be a key mechanism promoting ecosystem stability, which underpins much of the biodiversity - ecosystem functioning research field. 

However, this phenomenon has proven to be very elusive in field data, as synchrony in climate drivers often induces synchrony in species densities, with most species going up and down collectively. This influence of the environment requires to look for compensation at various temporal scales (zooming in or out of the yearly temporal scale), which has been a technically challenging yet important development of previous research. 

In this manuscript, we study the joint dynamics of a wetland bird community that has been counted for 35 years, building on this thread of scale-dependent research on compensation. We not only investigate whether the dynamics are synchronous or compensatory at several temporal scales, but also several organizational scales (taxonomic or functional), which is to the best of our knowledge a truly novel feature of the manuscript. While compensation has often been searched for within guilds (made of relatively similar species), we show it has potential to emerge instead between the summed abundances of contrasted species guilds (in our case, waders and ducks).  

We believe that our results can be of broad interest to both empiricists and theoreticians, as we extend previous empirical analyses of synchrony/compensation to a new group (birds), for which we confirm the rarity of compensation and ubiquity of synchrony within guilds (or function groups), previously found in plants and zooplankton. But we propose that despite this rarity of compensation within functional groups, it might still emerge between functional groups, which may help to structure future theoretical research on compensation.  

We look forward to hear from you, 

On behalf of all co-authors, 

Frederic Barraquand
