1. Compensatory dynamics, during which community composition shifts despite a near-constant total community size, are usually rare: synchronous dynamics prevail in natural communities. This is a puzzle for ecologists, because of the key role of compensation in explaining the relation between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.

2. However, most studies so far have considered compensation in either plants or planktonic organisms, so that evidence for the generality of such synchrony is limited. Here, we extend analyses of community-level synchrony to wetland birds.

3. We analyse a 35-year monthly survey of a community where we suspected that compensation might occur due to changes in water levels, favouring birds with different habitat preferences, and potential competition. We perform both yearly analyses by season, using a synchrony index, and monthly analyses using wavelet-based measures allowing for scale-dependence. We analyse synchrony both within and between guilds, with guilds defined either as tightknit phylogenetic groups or larger functional groups.

4. We find that abundance compensation is rare, likely due to the synchronizing influence of climate on birds, even after considering several temporal scales of covariation (during either cold or warm seasons, above or below the seasonal scale). Negative covariation in abundance at the whole community level did only appear after a management change in the reserve, and at the scale of a few months or several years. We also found that synchrony varies with taxonomic and functional scale: the rare cases where compensation appeared consistently at the annual scale were between rather than within guilds, using functional groups.

5. Although most research has focused on viewing compensation vs synchrony across temporal scales, because synchrony is guaranteed at the temporal scale of the dominant environmental forcing, our results suggest that compensation can be masked as well at some taxonomic or functional scales. We suggest that abundance compensation may have more potential to emerge between broad functional groups, rather between species.
